## password generator

A CLI passphrase generator that builds a passphrase by simulating dice throws and using
them to pick components of that passphrase from the [Diceware™](https://theworld.com/~reinhold/diceware.html) wordlist.

The resulting passphrases are cryptographically strong, but easier to remember than regular
random-character passwords.

Sample output:
```
Your passphrase is: ping-paper-edwin-boil-gator-spooky
Copied to clipboard! ✅
```

### Motivation

This is a small project mostly for me to learn Rust. However, if you find it useful, you can install it using the steps below. 

### Installation

```bash
git clone git@github.com:anna-hope/password-generator.git
cd passsword-generator
cargo install --path .
```

### Additional usage options

Some websites require your password to include digits, special characters, or a mix of lowercase
and capital letters. You can generate a passphrase that satisfies all of those requirements 
like this (assuming you've installed the program as described above):

`password_generator -s digit -a -c`

However, the resulting password will likely be much harder to remember, for example `Mv7Town1Ohmic6Sis0'1Kt3^3"6Spurn`.

You can see all the available options by running

`password_generator --help`

### How does this work and is it actually secure?

The [Diceware FAQ](https://theworld.com/~reinhold/dicewarefaq.html) provides a lot of good background
information about the algorithm and logic behind this program. I would recommend reading it if you're
interested in more information about security, entropy, adequate password length for different scenarios,
and more. 

#### The Diceware FAQ recommends using physical dice instead of a computer

That's true. 

This program simulates dice throws by using 
the [StdRng](https://docs.rs/rand/latest/rand/rngs/struct.StdRng.html) in Rust's
[rand](https://docs.rs/rand/0.8.5/rand/index.html) crate, which uses a cryptographically
secure algorithm to generate random numbers. The resulting passphrases generated by this program
should be strong enough for most applications.

However, if you want to have more certainty in your generated passphrase, please do use physical dice
and follow the Diceware instructions manually.



